# gettingandcleaningdata

This is the project assignment for the Getting and Cleaning Data module.

It is stored as a public repository on github, <https://github.com/rainerthiel/gettingandcleaningdata>

The script depends on thefollowing packages which are assumed to be already installed:

-   library(dplyr)
-   library(tidyr)
-   library(stringr)
-   library(datareporter)

## Notes on assigment instructions

### 2. Extract the measurements on the mean and standard deviation.

I have interpreted this to mean that only those variables where the name includes either "-mean()" or "-std()" are needed. There are other variables that include "mean" or "Mean" in the name. These are **not** included.

### 4. Appropriately label the data set with descriptive variable names.

The existing variable names are reasonably useful. The names (as listed in `features.txt` and described in `features_info.txt`) are heavily loaded with meaning, and an easy to understand naming convention has been used. A "description" of each variable name can be generated by splitting the name into constituent parts and building a sentence from them.

1.  frequency and time domain signal (variable names that begin with "f" or "t")
2.  the actual measurement name
3.  the calculation applied to the measurement: the mean and the standard deviation
4.  the spatial axis of the measurement (x, y and z) for the summarized output file.

The variable names themselves remain mostly as originally loaded from the `features.txt` file. I have just stripped out the parentheses i.e. "[()]"

## Output dataset

Step 5 creates a new independent tidy dataset that shows the mean of each measurement vector summarized by subject and activity.

The internally created dataset is a data frame named `summarizedOutput`. It was written to disc (serialized) using the write.table function to create a comma separated value file named `summarizedOutput.csv`

The file may be read back into R using the read.table function as follows:

`backin <- read.csv("./data/summarizedOutput.csv")`

### Codebook

The `datareporter` package was used to generate a codebook. https://www.r-bloggers.com/2018/03/generating-codebooks-in-r/

#### Detail

-   `makeCodebook()` generates the codebook rmd file for our data frame.
-   The resulting rmd file was tweaked to add generated descriptions.
-   `render("./codebook_summarizedOutput.Rmd", html_document())` 